In the last two video, we learn how to doing
network automation on cisco and  mikrotik router.
In this video we are going to combine that
two topics, so in the end of this video, you
will able to doing network automation on cisco
and mikrotik router at once.
This is the script that we will use in this
video. Here we have a list of dictionary that
save the router information like ip address,
vendor, username, and password.
The first dictionary save the information
about cisco router, the ip address is 192.168.1.2
the vendor is cisco, the username and password
is also cisco. I am sorry, the IP Address
of cisco router is 192.168.1.3
The second dictionary save the information
about mikrotik routers, the ip address is
192.168.1.2, the vendor is mikrotik, the username
is admin, and the password is blank
We call SSH Client function from paramiko
, and Here we doing a loop to devices
which is the list that we have defined before. Here
we connect to the device [“ip_address”]
this is will be 192.168.1.3 and 192.168.1.2,
using the username and  password from dictionary.
Here we just print that we have successfully
login to the router.
We have a condition in here, if the vendor
is cisco, the script will invoke the shell
and send cisco command, also will print the
output to the console. But if the vendor is
not cisco, which means that the vendor is
mikrotik, the script will not invoke the shell,
instead send the mikrotik command directly,
you can see that we don’t need to sleep
the script if the device is mikrotik. Last
don’t forget to close the ssh connection.
Save the file, open a command prompt and make
sure that we are in the right directory
Here we can see that we have script3.py. Let’s
run the code
First, the code will connect to cisco
and configure loopback 2 interface with ip
address 10.1.1.3, and then connect to mikrotik
router and configure loopback1, with ip address 10.2.2.2
Okay our script executed successfully, let’s
check on the cisco router
Here we can see that now we have loopback2 interface with
ip address 10.1.1.3.
Let’s also check on mikrotik router. Here
we can see that we also have a new ip address,
which is 10.2.2.2 on loopback1.
Cool ! We are successfully doing Network Automation
on cisco & mikrotik routers at once
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.